# project:Data Modelling With Postgres PROJECT 

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app

PROJECT OBJECTIVE

This a project to apply data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python.

DATASETS Song Dataset- The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset. song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

Log Dataset The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset. log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

SCHEMA star schema has been used to optimize queries on song play analysis Fact Table 1.songplays - records in log data associated with song plays

Dimension Tables 2.users - users in the app

3.songs - songs in music database

4.artists - artists in music database

5.time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units

HOW TO USE IT project has the following files:

data: Contains two sub-folders song_data and log_data. Under each sub-folders, the sample JSON files are present. create_tables.py: drops and creates tables etl.ipynb :contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables. etl.py: reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into tables sql_queries.py contains all your sql queries
